tags:: paper
link:: [LINK](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-60827-w)
authors:: Himburg, H A et al
n:: 19
dose-cgy:: 70.2
time-post-rt:: 14 days
disease-site:: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HPV-negative)
pub-date:: 2025-07-01
tissue-pre-rt:: Primary tumor biopsy
tissue-post-rt:: Primary tumor biopsy
fractionation:: 35
deg-comparison:: paired pre/post same patient

- The clinical trial Hypofractionated Pre-operative Radiation for HNSCC (HyPR-HN, NCT05538533) is a single-institution Phase I study of pre-operative neo-adjuvant hypofractionated radiation in HPV-negative HNSCC. Eligible patients have advanced-stage disease (T3-4 and/or clinical node-positive) without radiographic extracapsular extension. Enrolled patients undergo biopsies pre-treatment and immediately after the last fraction of radiotherapy in the clinic setting. Approximately 6 weeks after completion of radiation, patients are taken for definitive resection of residual disease with an additional research-specific biopsy at the time of surgery. All enrolled patients included in this report were treated with 46 Gy in 10 fractions to PTVhigh regions (to encompass gross disease) and 35 Gy in 10 fractions to PTVlow regions (to encompass microscopic spread, including nodal regions at risk).
- As above, biopsy samples were triaged for translational studies. However, for the HyPR-HN study, samples were prioritized first for single-cell sequencing. After single-cell suspensions were processed for sequencing, the remaining cells from the sample underwent mFC. In cases with additional sufficient tissue samples, separate pieces were preserved for mIF, bulk RNA sequencing, whole-exome sequencing, and spatial transcriptomics.